---
title: CREA "Old Woman"
date: '2011-03-11T02:38:54Z'
slug: crea-old-woman
postType: work
categories:
- Commercials
tags:
- vfx
- photoreal
- cg
- compositing
- tracking
- comedy
- design
uuid: fc011cf6-72e1-47e7-8036-493e56aac316
pk: 116
is_featured: false
excerpt: 'When the Canadian Real Estate Association decided to craft a spot portraying

  an old woman and her dozens of children living in a shoe-shaped home, they

  turned to Dashing to craft the colossal structure, inspired by the classic

  nursery rhyme about a matriarch raising her brood in a shoe. Working with

  MJZ/Radke Films Director Blue Source via Crispin Porter + Bogusky Toronto,

  Dashing created an unlikely and impressive building at the nexus of the real

  and fantastic.


  '
headline: 'directed by Blue Source, Radke Films/MJZ for CP+B Toronto


  '
published: true
---
When the Canadian Real Estate Association decided to craft a spot portraying
an old woman and her dozens of children living in a shoe-shaped home, they
turned to Dashing to craft the colossal structure, inspired by the classic
nursery rhyme about a matriarch raising her brood in a shoe. Working with
MJZ/Radke Films Director Blue Source via Crispin Porter + Bogusky Toronto,
Dashing created an unlikely and impressive building at the nexus of the real
and fantastic.

Old Woman is narrated by its star, Carmela, a determined mother who rises at 6
a.m. each day to care for her enormous brood. As she dishes out breakfast,
works the endless lines of laundry, leads calisthenics and band practice, and
corrals her children onto the school bus, she boasts about how much easier her
life has been since moving to her new home and how helpful it was that her
REALTORÂ® understood her needs. The spot ends with a slow-moving, panoramic
shot of the Dashing-created, entirely CG, shoe-shaped house, a tremendous
aging beauty with three floors rising off the "heel," an ivy-covered porch,
and a large multi-windowed room in the "toe," all set on a sprawling lawn.

"Blue Source wanted to build a house shaped like a shoe instead of an
oversized shoe, so we set out to create a house that felt like it was really
built that way and had evolved over time," noted Rob Moggach, who acted as VFX
supervisor and Flame artist on the spot. "Building the house with CG gave us
the flexibility to build a photoreal house that could be art directed to meet
changing creative needs and be incorporated into an undetermined selection of
wide and medium shots. We worked closely with Blue Source's production design
team throughout the design and development to get the look exactly right."

Dashing built the house in Maya and Mental Ray over a two-week period,
experimenting with different window shapes, floor scales, stucco and brick
exteriors, and clay or wood roof tiles. They then aged the house, making the
different floors settle into place so that - much as in many actual old homes
- nothing was perfectly flat. Ivy was added on the walls and water damage
textures and cracks were the final touches.

"To maintain the realism of our integration we completed all the visual
effects in a flat film color space and the grade was applied to our fully
integrated shots once they were finished," said Moggach. "This meant our work
was graded in the same way the rest of the film was graded, helping the
cohesiveness of the shots within the film immensely. We needed to cover
ourselves for different scenarios ahead of seeing any footage, so we were
careful to add a lot of detail to our model and texture elements."

Once Dashing received the final plates, they had less than two weeks to track
the shots using SynthEyes and Nuke, finish texturing, then light (Boxx
workstations with Renderpro satellite solution), render and composite (using
Nuke and Flame) the shoe into the plates. "One of the big challenges was
tracking the documentary style, handheld, and very grainy super16 footage,
which gives the film it's very real and intimate personality," said Moggach.
"Lock-offs or dolly shots were not part of this piece, and many shots featured
energized kids running through frame, adding to the challenge."

This project marked the beginning of a new relationship for Dashing with both
CP+B Toronto and directing team Blue Source, though they had worked with both
MJZ and Radke in the past. "They entrusted us with the CG/VFX based on Rob's
reputation for producing great work locally and abroad," stated EP Danielle
Lyons. "There was a collaborative synergy in the whole team that enabled the
great result. The film tells the story in quite a clever, revealing way, and I
believe both the film and the VFX maintain the integrity of the original
vision. Our VFX work serves as a backdrop to an already great narrative."


